New Blog Post: Collecting OpenTelemetry-compliant Java logs from files (#5600)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/collecting-file-based-java-logs-with-opentelemetry/index.md

```java
Logger logger = org.slf4j.LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
...
MDC.put("customerId", cusomerId);

logger.info("Order {} successfully placed", orderId);

logger.atInfo().
   .addKeyValue("orderId", orderId)
   .addKeyValue("outcome", "success")
   .log("placeOrder");
```

* Export the logs captured by the OTel Java instrumentation to stdout using the OTel JSON format (aka [OTLP/JSON](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/#json-protobuf-encoding)).
  Configuration parameters for [Logback](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent) and [Log4j](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/log4j/log4j-appender-2.17/javaagent) are optional but recommended.

```bash
# Tested with opentelemetry-javaagent v2.10.0
#
# Details on -Dotel.logback-appender.* params on documentation page:
# https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent

java -javaagent:/path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \

>      -Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout \

Author: @zeitlinger do we want to use `-Dotel.logs.exporter` or `export OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER`? Practitioners may look for the later and be confused to not find it in the text. 
Maybe we can add a mention that `export OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="experimental-otlp/stdout"` can be used.

Reviewer: yes, good idea

---
title: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry

> linkTitle: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 2: The `linkTitle` should be short and only be used if it is different from the `title`.

I also suggest that you re-think the title. Right now without knowing the content I would assume that this is just some docs on any kind of java logs with otel, but with context I understand that the crucial part is that there is a way to emit otel-compliant json logs and that can be read by the collector with ease

Author: Thanks @svrnm , @zeitlinger what do you think of "Collecting OpenTelemetry-compliant file-based Java logs"?

Reviewer 3: If it doesn't change the meaning, another option that avoids the double hyphenated modifiers could be:
```suggestion
title: Collecting OpenTelemetry-compliant Java logs from files
```

date: 
author: >
  [Cyrille Le Clerc](https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc) (Grafana Labs), [Gregor Zeitlinger](https://github.com/zeitlinger) (Grafana Labs)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5606
sig: Java, Specification
# prettier-ignore

> cSpell:ignore: Cyrille Clerc Gregor Zeitlinger SLF4J Logback logback stdout 

Author: ```suggestion
cSpell:ignore: Clerc Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger
```suggestion

---

> Sending Java logs with OpenTelemetry typically uses the OTLP protocol. However, some scenarios require logs to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.

Reviewer 2: This needs some refinement. I recommend to start with something that emphasized that otlp makes it super easy to emit logs.
 
```suggestion
If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into a backend, the easiest and recommended way is using an exporter that uses the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP). However, some scenarios require logs to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.
```

> If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into a backend, the easiest and recommended way is using an exporter that uses the OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP). However, some scenarios require logs to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into an OpenTelemetry compatible logs backend, the easiest and recommended way is using an OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) exporter. 
However, some scenarios require logs to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.
```

A common approach to centralize logs is to use unstructured logs, parse them with regular expressions, and add contextual attributes.

> However, regular expression parsing is problematic. While initially easy, it becomes complex and fragile when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors are inevitable with this method.

Reviewer 2: "While initially easy"

I would argue that a lot of people struggle with them already when beginning. so skip that

```suggestion
However, regular expression parsing is problematic. They become complex and fragile quickly when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors is inevitable with this method.
```

## Solution

> The OpenTelemetry Java Instrumentation agent now offers an easy solution to convert logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant JSON logs on stdout with all resource and log attributes.

Reviewer 2: Is this unique to the java agent? I would assume that this exporter is also available for use cases where the agent is not used?

Author: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry Java Instrumentation agent and SDK now offer an easy solution to convert logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant JSON logs on stdout with all resource and log attributes.
```

This is a true turnkey solution:

* No code or dependency changes, just a few configuration adjustments typical for production deployment.
* No complex field mapping in the log collector, just use the [OTLP/JSON connector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/connector/otlpjsonconnector) to ingest the payload.
* Automatic correlation between logs, traces, and metrics.

This blog post shows how to set up this solution step by step.

* In the first part, we'll show how to configure the Java application to output logs in the OTLP/JSON format. 
* In the second part, we'll show how to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the logs.
* Finally, we'll show a Kubernetes-specific setup to handle container logs.

## Reference architecture

The deployment architecture looks like the following:

![OTLP/JSON Architecture](otlpjson-architecture.png)

> ## Configure Java Application to Output OTLP/JSON Logs

Reviewer 2: the sample application you are using, is this available somewhere? If so, can you point to it? It's always good if people can reproduce your tutorial 1:1 without the need for them to find an application first

Author: @zeitlinger do we have a simplified demo or we use https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc/my-shopping-cart/? Note that I reverted my-shopping-cart to the `otlp` exporter so I would have to spend a few cycles to setup a demo.

Reviewer: yes, the demo app is at https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/tree/main/examples/java/json-logging-otlp - which is already mentioned twice

> Steps

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * No code changes needed. Continue using your preferred logging library, including templated logs, mapped diagnostic context, and structured logging.

Reviewer 2: Remove the "Steps" and remove the bullet points

Author: ```suggestion
No code changes needed. Continue using your preferred logging library, including templated logs, mapped diagnostic context, and structured logging.
```

```java
Logger logger = org.slf4j.LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
...
MDC.put("customerId", cusomerId);

logger.info("Order {} successfully placed", orderId);

logger.atInfo().
   .addKeyValue("orderId", orderId)
   .addKeyValue("outcome", "success")
   .log("placeOrder");
```

> * Export the logs captured by the OTel Java instrumentation to stdout using the OTel JSON format (aka [OTLP/JSON](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/#json-protobuf-encoding)).

Author: ```suggestion
Export the logs captured by the OTel Java instrumentation to stdout using the OTel JSON format (aka [OTLP/JSON](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/#json-protobuf-encoding)).
```

>   Configuration parameters for [Logback](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent) and [Log4j](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/log4j/log4j-appender-2.17/javaagent) are optional but recommended.

Author: ```suggestion
Configuration parameters for [Logback](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent) and [Log4j](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/log4j/log4j-appender-2.17/javaagent) are optional but recommended.
```

```bash
# Tested with opentelemetry-javaagent v2.10.0
#
# Details on -Dotel.logback-appender.* params on documentation page:
# https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent

java -javaagent:/path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental-log-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-key-value-pair-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-mdc-attributes=* \
     -jar /path/to/my-app.jar

```

> The `-Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout` JVM argument and the environment variable `OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="experimental-otlp/stdout"` can be used interchangeably.

Reviewer 2: add a cspell:ignore: list to your frontmatter to get the spell checker satisfied

Author: Should be fixed. waiting for the next check

> The `-Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout` JVM argument and the environment variable `OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="experimental-otlp/stdout"` can be used interchangeably.

Author: @zeitlinger please review added sentence.

Reviewer: lgtm

> > **NOTE:** The logs exporter is experimental and subject to change. 
> > Check the [Specification PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183) for the latest updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}

The OTLP logs exporter is experimental and subject to change. 
Check the [Specification PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183) for the latest updates.

{{% /alert %}
```

> * Verify that OTLP/JSON logs are outputted to stdout. The logs are in the OTLP/JSON format, with a JSON object per line. The log records are nested in the `resourceLogs` array.

Author: ```suggestion
Verify that OTLP/JSON logs are outputted to stdout. The logs are in the OTLP/JSON format, with a JSON object per line. The log records are nested in the `resourceLogs` array.
```

{"resourceLogs":[{"resource":{"attributes":[{"key":"deployment.environment.name","value":{"stringValue":"staging"}},{"key":"service.instance.id","value":{"stringValue":"6ad88e10-238c-4fb7-bf97-38df19053366"}},{"key":"service.name","value":{"stringValue":"checkout"}},{"key":"service.namespace","value":{"stringValue":"shop"}},{"key":"service.version","value":{"stringValue":"1.1"}}]},"scopeLogs":[{"scope":{"name":"com.mycompany.checkout.CheckoutServiceServer$CheckoutServiceImpl","attributes":[]},"logRecords":[{"timeUnixNano":"1730435085776869000","observedTimeUnixNano":"1730435085776944000","severityNumber":9,"severityText":"INFO","body":{"stringValue":"Order order-12035 successfully placed"}, "attributes":[{"key":"customerId","value":{"stringValue":"customer-49"}},{"key":"thread.id","value":{"intValue":"44"}},{"key":"thread.name","value":{"stringValue":"grpc-default-executor-1"}}],"flags":1,"traceId":"42de1f0dd124e27619a9f3c10bccac1c","spanId":"270984d03e94bb8b"}]}],"schemaUrl":"https://opentelemetry.io/schemas/1.24.0"}]}
```

## Configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the OTLP/JSON logs

![OpenTelemetry Collector OTLP/JSON pipeline](otel-collector-otlpjson-pipeline.png)

> Source: [https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a)

Reviewer 2: I like that you provide the link to the otelbin source of that image, but let's figure out a way to visualize this better.

Author: ```suggestion
[View OTel Collector pipeline with <img src="https://www.otelbin.io/favicon.ico" height="20px"/> OTelBin](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a)
```

Author: @svrnm please review proposal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< figure class="figure" src="otel-collector-otlpjson-pipeline.png" attr="View OTel Collector pipeline with OTelBin" attrlink="https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a" >}}
```

What I meant is to have something that makes it clearer that the `Source:` (or `View ...`) belongs to the image, since the spacing is not right, similar to what bootstrap provides for [figures](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/content/figures/). We have a shortcode for that via docsy, it's not exactly what I want, but we can take a look into that separately, cc @chalin

Reviewer 4: Has this been addressed to your satisfaction @svrnm? See, https://deploy-preview-5600--opentelemetry.netlify.app/blog/2024/collecting-file-based-java-logs-with-opentelemetry/#configure-the-opentelemetry-collector-to-ingest-the-otlpjson-logs.

Reviewer 2: no it hasn't!

@cyrille-leclerc PTAL!

Author: @svrnm 's suggestion is integrated

> Source: [https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a)

Reviewer 2: I like that you provide the link to the otelbin source of that image, but let's figure out a way to visualize this better.

```yaml
# tested with otelcol-contrib v0.112.0

receivers:
  filelog/otlp-json-logs:
    # start_at: beginning # for testing purpose, use "start_at: beginning"
    include: [/path/to/my-app.otlpjson.log]
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
  resourcedetection:
    detectors: ["env", "system"]
    override: false

connectors:
  otlpjson:

service:
  pipelines:
    logs/raw_otlpjson:
      receivers: [ filelog/otlp-json-logs ]
      # (i) no need for processors before the otlpjson connector
      # Declare processors in the shared "logs" pipeline below
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlpjson]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp, otlpjson]

>       # TODO change processors if needed
>       processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
>       # TODO remove "debug" for production deployments
>       exporters: [otlphttp, debug]
>     # TODO add "traces" and "metrics" pipelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
      # remove "debug" for production deployments
      exporters: [otlphttp, debug]
```

---
title: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
date: 
author: >
  [Cyrille Le Clerc](https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc) (Grafana Labs), [Gregor Zeitlinger](https://github.com/zeitlinger) (Grafana Labs)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5606
sig: Java, Specification
# prettier-ignore

> cSpell:ignore: Clerc Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger

Author: ```suggestion
cSpell:ignore: Clerc Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback otlphttp otlpjson resourcedetection SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger
```

This is a true turnkey solution:

* No code or dependency changes, just a few configuration adjustments typical for production deployment.
* No complex field mapping in the log collector, just use the [OTLP/JSON connector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/connector/otlpjsonconnector) to ingest the payload.
* Automatic correlation between logs, traces, and metrics.

This blog post shows how to set up this solution step by step.

* In the first part, we'll show how to configure the Java application to output logs in the OTLP/JSON format. 
* In the second part, we'll show how to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the logs.
* Finally, we'll show a Kubernetes-specific setup to handle container logs.

## Reference architecture

The deployment architecture looks like the following:

![OTLP/JSON Architecture](otlpjson-architecture.png)

## Configure Java Application to Output OTLP/JSON Logs

No code changes needed. Continue using your preferred logging library, including templated logs, mapped diagnostic context, and structured logging.

```java
Logger logger = org.slf4j.LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
...

> MDC.put("customerId", cusomerId);

Author: ```suggestion
MDC.put("customerId", customerId);
```

---
title: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
date: 
author: >
  [Cyrille Le Clerc](https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc) (Grafana Labs), [Gregor Zeitlinger](https://github.com/zeitlinger) (Grafana Labs)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5606
sig: Java, Specification
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: Clerc cust Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback otlphttp otlpjson resourcedetection SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger

> ```suggestion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

this breaks the build process

* Automatic correlation between logs, traces, and metrics.

This blog post shows how to set up this solution step by step.

* In the first part, we'll show how to configure the Java application to output logs in the OTLP/JSON format. 
* In the second part, we'll show how to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the logs.
* Finally, we'll show a Kubernetes-specific setup to handle container logs.

## Reference architecture

The deployment architecture looks like the following:

![OTLP/JSON Architecture](otlpjson-architecture.png)

## Configure Java application to output OTLP/JSON logs

No code changes needed. Continue using your preferred logging library, including templated logs, mapped diagnostic context, and structured logging.

```java
Logger logger = org.slf4j.LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
...
MDC.put("customerId", customerId);

logger.info("Order {} successfully placed", orderId);

logger.atInfo().
   .addKeyValue("orderId", orderId)
   .addKeyValue("outcome", "success")
   .log("placeOrder");
```

> Export the logs captured by the OTel Java instrumentation to stdout using the OTel JSON format (aka [OTLP/JSON](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otlp/#json-protobuf-encoding)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Export the logs captured by the OTel Java instrumentation to stdout using the OTel JSON format (aka [OTLP/JSON](/docs/specs/otlp/#json-protobuf-encoding)).
```

Configuration parameters for [Logback](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent) and [Log4j](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/log4j/log4j-appender-2.17/javaagent) are optional but recommended.

```bash
# Tested with opentelemetry-javaagent v2.10.0
#
# Details on -Dotel.logback-appender.* params on documentation page:
# https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent

java -javaagent:/path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental-log-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-key-value-pair-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-mdc-attributes=* \
     -jar /path/to/my-app.jar

```

The `-Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout` JVM argument and the environment variable `OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="experimental-otlp/stdout"` can be used interchangeably.

> {{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}
> 
> The OTLP logs exporter is experimental and subject to change. 
> Check the [Specification PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183) for the latest updates.
> 
> {{% /alert %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

The OTLP logs exporter is experimental and subject to change. 
Check the [Specification PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183) for the latest updates.

{{% /alert %}}
```

might have been my suggestion that created the issue that breaks the build

---
title: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Collecting file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry
date: 
author: >
  [Cyrille Le Clerc](https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc) (Grafana Labs), [Gregor Zeitlinger](https://github.com/zeitlinger) (Grafana Labs)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5606
sig: Java, Specification
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: Clerc cust Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback otlphttp otlpjson resourcedetection SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger
```suggestion
---

> If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into an OpenTelemetry compatible logs backend, the easiest and recommended way is using an OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) exporter. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into an OpenTelemetry-compatible logs backend, the easiest and recommended way is using an OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) exporter. 
```

However, some scenarios require logs to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.

A common approach to centralize logs is to use unstructured logs, parse them with regular expressions, and add contextual attributes.

> However, regular expression parsing is problematic. They become complex and fragile quickly when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors is inevitable with this method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, regular expression parsing is problematic. They become complex and fragile quickly when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors are inevitable with this method.
```

## Solution

The OpenTelemetry Java Instrumentation agent and SDK now offer an easy solution to convert logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant JSON logs on stdout with all resource and log attributes.

This is a true turnkey solution:

* No code or dependency changes, just a few configuration adjustments typical for production deployment.

> * No complex field mapping in the log collector, just use the [OTLP/JSON connector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/connector/otlpjsonconnector) to ingest the payload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* No complex field mapping in the log collector. Just use the [OTLP/JSON connector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/connector/otlpjsonconnector) to ingest the payload.
```

* Automatic correlation between logs, traces, and metrics.

This blog post shows how to set up this solution step by step.

* In the first part, we'll show how to configure the Java application to output logs in the OTLP/JSON format. 
* In the second part, we'll show how to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the logs.
* Finally, we'll show a Kubernetes-specific setup to handle container logs.

## Reference architecture

The deployment architecture looks like the following:

![OTLP/JSON Architecture](otlpjson-architecture.png)

> ## Configure Java Application to Output OTLP/JSON Logs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure Java application to output OTLP/JSON logs
```

![OpenTelemetry Collector OTLP/JSON pipeline](otel-collector-otlpjson-pipeline.png)

Source: [https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a)

```yaml
# tested with otelcol-contrib v0.112.0

receivers:
  filelog/otlp-json-logs:
    # start_at: beginning # for testing purpose, use "start_at: beginning"
    include: [/path/to/my-app.otlpjson.log]
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
  resourcedetection:
    detectors: ["env", "system"]
    override: false

connectors:
  otlpjson:

service:
  pipelines:
    logs/raw_otlpjson:
      receivers: [ filelog/otlp-json-logs ]
      # (i) no need for processors before the otlpjson connector
      # Declare processors in the shared "logs" pipeline below
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlpjson]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp, otlpjson]
      processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
      # remove "debug" for production deployments
      exporters: [otlphttp, debug]

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
  # Exporter to the OTLP backend like `otlphttp`
  otlphttp:
```

> Verify the logs collected by the OTel Collector checking the output of the OTel Collector Debug exporter

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify the logs collected by the OTel Collector by checking the output of the OTel Collector Debug exporter
```

2024-11-01T10:03:31.074+0530	info	ResourceLog #0
Resource SchemaURL: https://opentelemetry.io/schemas/1.24.0
Resource attributes:
     -> deployment.environment.name: Str(staging)
     -> service.instance.id: Str(6ad88e10-238c-4fb7-bf97-38df19053366)
     -> service.name: Str(checkout)
     -> service.namespace: Str(shop)
     -> service.version: Str(1.1)
ScopeLogs #0
ScopeLogs SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope com.mycompany.checkout.CheckoutServiceServer$CheckoutServiceImpl
LogRecord #0
ObservedTimestamp: 2024-11-01 04:24:45.776944 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2024-11-01 04:24:45.776869 +0000 UTC
SeverityText: INFO
SeverityNumber: Info(9)
Body: Str(Order order-12035 successfully placed)
Attributes:
     -> customerId: Str(cust-12345)
     -> thread.id: Int(44)
     -> thread.name: Str(grpc-default-executor-1)
Trace ID: 42de1f0dd124e27619a9f3c10bccac1c
Span ID: 270984d03e94bb8b
Flags: 1
     {"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "logs", "name": "debug"}
```

Verify the logs in the OpenTelemetry backend.

After the pipeline works end-to-end, ensure production readiness:

* Remove the `debug` exporter from the `logs` pipeline in the OTel Collector configuration.

> * Disable file and console exporters in the logging framework (e.g., `logback.xml`) but keep using the logging configuration to filter logs. The OTel Java agent will output JSON logs to stdout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Disable file and console exporters in the logging framework (for example, `logback.xml`) but keep using the logging configuration to filter logs. The OTel Java agent will output JSON logs to stdout.
```

# https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/tree/main/instrumentation/logback/logback-appender-1.0/javaagent

java -javaagent:/path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar \
     -Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental-log-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-key-value-pair-attributes=true \
     -Dotel.instrumentation.logback-appender.experimental.capture-mdc-attributes=* \
     -jar /path/to/my-app.jar
```

The `-Dotel.logs.exporter=experimental-otlp/stdout` JVM argument and the
environment variable `OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER="experimental-otlp/stdout"` can be used
interchangeably.

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

The OTLP logs exporter is experimental and subject to change. Check the
[Specification PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183)
for the latest updates.

{{% /alert %}}

Verify that OTLP/JSON logs are outputted to stdout. The logs are in the
OTLP/JSON format, with a JSON object per line. The log records are nested in the
`resourceLogs` array.

```json

> {"resourceLogs":[{"resource":{"attributes":[{"key":"deployment.environment.name","value":{"stringValue":"staging"}},{"key":"service.instance.id","value":{"stringValue":"6ad88e10-238c-4fb7-bf97-38df19053366"}},{"key":"service.name","value":{"stringValue":"checkout"}},{"key":"service.namespace","value":{"stringValue":"shop"}},{"key":"service.version","value":{"stringValue":"1.1"}}]},"scopeLogs":[{"scope":{"name":"com.mycompany.checkout.CheckoutServiceServer$CheckoutServiceImpl","attributes":[]},"logRecords":[{"timeUnixNano":"1730435085776869000","observedTimeUnixNano":"1730435085776944000","severityNumber":9,"severityText":"INFO","body":{"stringValue":"Order order-12035 successfully placed"}, "attributes":[{"key":"customerId","value":{"stringValue":"customer-49"}},{"key":"thread.id","value":{"intValue":"44"}},{"key":"thread.name","value":{"stringValue":"grpc-default-executor-1"}}],"flags":1,"traceId":"42de1f0dd124e27619a9f3c10bccac1c","spanId":"270984d03e94bb8b"}]}],"schemaUrl":"https://opentelemetry.io/schemas/1.24.0"}]}

Author: @svrnm can you please help me. `npm run _check:format` wants to format this json fragment on multiple lines when I would like to keep the format compact on one single line to:
* Align with the way it is outputted by the Java OTel SDK
* Help the readability of the blog post

---
title: Collecting OpenTelemetry-compliant Java logs from files
date:
author: >
  [Cyrille Le Clerc](https://github.com/cyrille-leclerc) (Grafana Labs), [Gregor
  Zeitlinger](https://github.com/zeitlinger) (Grafana Labs)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5606
sig: Java, Specification
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: Clerc cust Cyrille Dotel Gregor Logback logback otlphttp otlpjson resourcedetection SLF4J stdout Zeitlinger
---

If you want to get logs from your Java application ingested into an
OpenTelemetry-compatible logs backend, the easiest and recommended way is using
an OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) exporter. However, some scenarios require logs
to be output to files or stdout due to organizational or reliability needs.

A common approach to centralize logs is to use unstructured logs, parse them
with regular expressions, and add contextual attributes.

However, regular expression parsing is problematic. They become complex and
fragile quickly when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and
unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors are inevitable with this method.

> ## Solution

Reviewer 4: How about: 

```suggestion
## Native solution for Java logs
```

fragile quickly when handling all log fields, line breaks in exceptions, and
unexpected log format changes. Parsing errors are inevitable with this method.

## Solution

The OpenTelemetry Java Instrumentation agent and SDK now offer an easy solution
to convert logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant
JSON logs on stdout with all resource and log attributes.

This is a true turnkey solution:

- No code or dependency changes, just a few configuration adjustments typical
  for production deployment.
- No complex field mapping in the log collector. Just use the
  [OTLP/JSON connector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/connector/otlpjsonconnector)
  to ingest the payload.
- Automatic correlation between logs, traces, and metrics.

This blog post shows how to set up this solution step by step.

- In the first part, we'll show how to configure the Java application to output
  logs in the OTLP/JSON format.
- In the second part, we'll show how to configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to
  ingest the logs.
- Finally, we'll show a Kubernetes-specific setup to handle container logs.

> ## Reference architecture
> 
> The deployment architecture looks like the following:

Reviewer 4: I don't think that we need a section heading here, you're only introducing the diagram.

Also, this isn't a "reference architecture", nor even a "deployment architecture". Prefer the use of the simpler term "deployment diagram". Actually, if you just present the diagram, you don't really need to name it, but if you do (e.g., via the "alt" text in the image element below, then avoid the use of "architecture".

```suggestion
```

> ![OTLP/JSON Architecture](otlpjson-architecture.png)

Reviewer 4: This diagram is really busy, and the content too small. I'd suggest the following improvements:

- Remove the following text from the diagram and add it instead as prose to this section (before or after the image):
  - "Logs contextualized with OTel metadata including: ..."
  - "experimental-otlp/stout" exporter Available in Java Agent v2.10"
- Move the "Observability Platform" block to be below the rest so that the image becomes less wide -- that is, favor vertical image real estate rather than horizontal. Or, if you prefer, put the app at the top of the diagram with the OTel components below. Something (very roughly) like what I show below. 

> <img width="772" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e46b347f-f800-4d6e-9146-2138880b0fde">

Author: What do you think of this style?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/00f1904b-3c0f-4db0-b3ad-ccf26f19dbe4)

Author: Here is a proposal of half horizontal and half vertical style.

@svrnm @zeitlinger do you prefer this or the horizontal style?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9478454d-51aa-4605-ac4d-790ad7d7c1d2)

Reviewer: I like the  new one better

Reviewer 2: lgtm

@chalin wdyt?

Author: I pushed the new "1/2 horizontal & 1/2 vertical style", LGTM, thanks for he suggestion!

OTLP/JSON format, with a JSON object per line. The log records are nested in the
`resourceLogs` array.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

```json
{"resourceLogs":[{"resource":{"attributes":[{"key":"deployment.environment.name","value":{"stringValue":"staging"}},{"key":"service.instance.id","value":{"stringValue":"6ad88e10-238c-4fb7-bf97-38df19053366"}},{"key":"service.name","value":{"stringValue":"checkout"}},{"key":"service.namespace","value":{"stringValue":"shop"}},{"key":"service.version","value":{"stringValue":"1.1"}}]},"scopeLogs":[{"scope":{"name":"com.mycompany.checkout.CheckoutServiceServer$CheckoutServiceImpl","attributes":[]},"logRecords":[{"timeUnixNano":"1730435085776869000","observedTimeUnixNano":"1730435085776944000","severityNumber":9,"severityText":"INFO","body":{"stringValue":"Order order-12035 successfully placed"}, "attributes":[{"key":"customerId","value":{"stringValue":"customer-49"}},{"key":"thread.id","value":{"intValue":"44"}},{"key":"thread.name","value":{"stringValue":"grpc-default-executor-1"}}],"flags":1,"traceId":"42de1f0dd124e27619a9f3c10bccac1c","spanId":"270984d03e94bb8b"}]}],"schemaUrl":"https://opentelemetry.io/schemas/1.24.0"}]}
```

> <!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Reviewer 4: This JSON output is unreadable. Let Prettier format it, or format it manually. If it is too big, then wrap it in a `<details>` element.

Author: done

## Configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to ingest the OTLP/JSON logs

![OpenTelemetry Collector OTLP/JSON pipeline](otel-collector-otlpjson-pipeline.png)

> You can also [view OTel Collector pipeline](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a) with  with OTelBin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also [view OTel Collector pipeline](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a) with OTelBin.
```

> [View OTel Collector pipeline with <img src="https://www.otelbin.io/favicon.ico" height="20px" alt="OTelBin icon"/> OTelBin](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a)

Reviewer 4: I don't think that we need the icon. How about more simply:

```suggestion
You can also [view OTel Collector pipeline](https://www.otelbin.io/s/69739d790cf279c203fc8efc86ad1a876a2fc01a) with  with OTelBin.
```

```yaml
# tested with otelcol-contrib v0.112.0

receivers:
  filelog/otlp-json-logs:
    # start_at: beginning # for testing purpose, use "start_at: beginning"
    include: [/path/to/my-app.otlpjson.log]
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
      http:

processors:
  batch:
  resourcedetection:
    detectors: ['env', 'system']
    override: false

connectors:
  otlpjson:

service:
  pipelines:
    logs/raw_otlpjson:
      receivers: [filelog/otlp-json-logs]
      # (i) no need for processors before the otlpjson connector
      # Declare processors in the shared "logs" pipeline below
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlpjson]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp, otlpjson]
      processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
      # remove "debug" for production deployments
      exporters: [otlphttp, debug]

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
  # Exporter to the OTLP backend like `otlphttp`
  otlphttp:
```

Verify the logs collected by the OTel Collector by checking the output of the

> OTel Collector Debug exporter

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OTel Collector Debug exporter:
```

service:
  pipelines:
    logs/raw_otlpjson:
      receivers: [filelog/otlp-json-logs]
      # (i) no need for processors before the otlpjson connector
      # Declare processors in the shared "logs" pipeline below
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlpjson]
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp, otlpjson]
      # TODO change processors if needed
      processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
      # TODO remove "debug" for production deployments
      exporters: [otlphttp, debug]
    # TODO add "traces" and "metrics" pipelines

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
  # Exporter to the OTLP backend like `otlphttp`
  otlphttp:
```

## Conclusion

This blog post showed how to collect file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry.
The solution is easy to set up and provides a turnkey solution for converting
logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant JSON logs
on stdout with all resource and log attributes. This JSON format is certainly
verbose, but it generally has minimal impact on performances and offers a solid
balance by providing highly contextualized logs that can be correlated with
traces and metrics.

Any feedback or questions? Reach out on

> [GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183).

Reviewer 4: Why is this linking to a spec PR?
Is this PR really the best place for folks to comment? 
If so, that's ok, but then the link text should explain more clearly what the link target is.

Author: We have updated referring to the PR of the OTEP and to the Slack channel

    logs:
      receivers: [otlp, otlpjson]
      # TODO change processors if needed
      processors: [resourcedetection, batch]
      # TODO remove "debug" for production deployments
      exporters: [otlphttp, debug]
    # TODO add "traces" and "metrics" pipelines

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
  # Exporter to the OTLP backend like `otlphttp`
  otlphttp:
```

## Conclusion

This blog post showed how to collect file-based Java logs with OpenTelemetry.
The solution is easy to set up and provides a turnkey solution for converting
logs from frameworks like SLF4J/Logback or Log4j2 into OTel-compliant JSON logs
on stdout with all resource and log attributes. This JSON format is certainly
verbose, but it generally has minimal impact on performances and offers a solid
balance by providing highly contextualized logs that can be correlated with
traces and metrics.
        
If any of the steps are unclear or you encounter issues, check the
[reference Kubernetes setup](https://github.com/grafana/docker-otel-lgtm/tree/main/examples/java/json-logging-otlp),
which is continuously updated and tested against the latest versions.

Any feedback or questions? Reach out on

> [GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/4183) or on [Slack](https://opentelemetry.io/community/#develop-and-contribute).
```
